Hi, everyone.
I'm Tim Lee from iOS Performance,
and today I'm proud to present to you the
iOS Performance and Power Optimization
with Instruments session.
So I just want to start off and
say that performance and power are
extremely important to everyone at
Apple and hopefully everybody here.
I probably am preaching
to the choir here.
But these are two major features,
and we treat them as such,
of our entire platform and
every app that we work on.
They're a key aspect
of app store reviews.
There are a lot of times when you go
through your app reviews and you see
X and Y crashed on launch or something,
or it eats a lot of memory.
And hopefully we'll deal with that today.
You have the tools available
to you to fix these problems.
You might not know it,
but by the end of this session,
hopefully you'll have some idea.
And to get more,
there's lots of resources available.
But today in this session,
we're going to cover a couple of common
cases and some general strategies
that you can use to optimize both
power and performance of your apps.
So an overview of what
you're going to learn.
Two big main areas are, number one,
and the big takeaway is to
how to measure the performance
of key aspects of your app.
And measurement is king of the game.
If you can measure
precisely and accurately,
it makes your job 10 times easier.
And the second part,
which you probably is
why you're all here,
is how to improve key scenarios.
So we're going to talk about a few that
apply to pretty much every app available.
So the first is speedy interaction,
making sure that when the
user is using the app,
it feels magical and there's no delays
or waiting or anything like that.
Everything moves along with the touch.
The second is a slim memory footprint.
We are still on very constrained devices,
and the key is to make
them not feel that way.
And in order to do that,
it takes some work.
So we'll talk about how to
keep the memory footprint down,
making multitasking feel great,
and your app will do the same.
And finally,
we're going to have some tips about how
to use the network and battery-specific
or power specific optimization,
some tips and tricks that you can use to
effectively use the network and battery.
So we're going to start off with, again,
number one, the big takeaway,
measuring performance.
And the big one here is to not guess.
We do this all the time.
We start writing some code.
Maybe you design, oh,
I have this brilliant algorithm.
And I know it's going to be slow here,
or my app is going to suck over here,
but I'm going to have to
spend a lot of time on it.
You're almost always wrong.
We do this all the time.
And I can let you know,
the first thing that everybody
should do is to take measurements.
And once you do that,
you will be surprised
at where things are.
And sometimes the optimization just
fall out immediately when the part that
you thought was slow is actually fast,
and the part that you thought was
fast is slow and is easy to fix.
That's the ideal case.
And even after you do that,
sometimes maybe you took a
measurement in a way that was not
[Transcript missing]
In the end,
it's all about how the app feels.
So measure, don't guess,
and use your app.
Now we're going to focus
on individual scenarios.
It's really hard to just
take a whole app and say,
I'm going to optimize this whole thing.
I'm just going to go through and line
by line go through and fix stuff.
What you want to do is look
at key interaction points,
key places where the user will
really notice your effort.
Maybe when you're pushing a
new navigation controller on or
when your app first launches,
when you switch tabs.
These key individual interactions.
It also makes it easier
for you to measure.
Again, back to the key point.
So you measure a single interaction.
You make a code change.
And then you measure again
to make sure what you think
you fixed was actually fixed.
So focus on key scenarios.
And finally, in the strategy section,
focus on making sure that you
have a realistic data set.
We spend a pretty reasonable,
or maybe unreasonable amount of time,
making sure that internally we
test with big photo libraries,
big music libraries,
and various Wi-Fi cell characteristics,
and you should definitely do the same.
Your app will behave very
differently when it's loaded
up with a lot of content.
So make sure that you put on
some realistic content when
you're testing your apps.
On top of that,
you want to make sure you test with
the devices that you plan to support.
Now, I'm assuming a lot of people here
have the latest and greatest,
but I know that not all of our users do.
So on top of actually testing on
devices and not just in the simulator,
make sure to test on the older
devices that you plan to support.
All right, on to tools.
So the ways that are available to you
to actually do these measurements.
Number one is instruments.
First thing I do whenever
I get a performance problem,
fire up instruments, take a trace.
And after that, if there are more issues,
and I've dug in a little bit,
then there are some other
options that are available.
There's the old standby, there's logging,
and there are cases where it's useful.
You'll NSLog, say,
particular instances that
maybe are very infrequent,
so they would be hard
to find in a big trace,
or happen a lot, and you want to see,
you know,
maybe there's a weird distribution
that you want to graph.
Use NSLog for that.
And if you're going to
do a lot of logging,
you know...
So, if you're going to be
logging while scrolling,
you want to be doing that to a file.
Now, NSLog is great,
but it does do a lot of things for you.
So,
there is some overhead incurred there.
if you're going to do a lot of logging,
try logging to a file and take
some of that overhead off.
And finally, you want to make it very,
very easy, if you have to resort to this,
to turn it off.
You can use pound define,
environment variables, user defaults,
whatever you want.
But make it really easy so that
when you build for release,
it's gone.
Now, a quick note about the simulator.
It's really handy for development,
but it's completely useless,
completely useless for performance.
For speed.
For memory, it's actually pretty good.
So if you want to run leaks, allocations,
those sorts of things,
you can do that on the simulator.
But for anything that's time sensitive,
completely separate,
run it on your device.
Now, one other way to do
measurements is side by side.
I'm assuming most people
have more than one device.
An interesting way to go here
is that if you make some change,
you might think,
maybe this doesn't quite look
right or maybe it doesn't
behave as well as it used to.
But it's a lot faster.
Well, do a blind test.
Do a side by side test with somebody.
Give them a version of the old code,
a version of the new code,
and have them play with it.
And if the old is the same as the new,
you know, in terms of visual
fidelity and everything,
then you're good to go.
All right,
so let's talk a little bit about
what we-- some general strategies
for improving performance.
And we're going to start with
speed and responsiveness.
So the importance of speed
and responsiveness shouldn't,
you know,
I really shouldn't have to say this,
but slow performance
is no good for anybody.
And, you know, we go to some length.
We have this system called the Watchdog
to make sure that a stray non-performant
app doesn't take down the entire system.
So we call this the Watchdog.
And what it does is in some
key app lifecycle cases,
if the app takes too long to, say,
launch,
then the app will be terminated so that
the user can continue to use their phone.
Now, the times here are for iOS 5,
and they are subject to change.
They're also extremely conservative.
I don't think anybody wants to wait
20 seconds for an app to launch.
I start hitting the home
button once it's at 5 seconds.
So don't take these as guidelines
for times to shoot for.
So for launch or resume,
really one second or so is
what you want to shoot for.
And then the other key scenario,
smooth scrolling.
We hear it all the time.
What's iOS good at?
What do we have that
everybody else doesn't?
We have the smooth scrolling,
and we need everybody to work on it.
We know it's not easy,
and there are lots of
techniques available to you,
and we're here to help you
to get that smooth scrolling.
Hit that 60 frames a second.
All right, so some general strategies
for improving speed.
So the first one is to do less work.
We see all the time that when
somebody loads up an app,
a lot of apps just load
a lot of data at launch.
Maybe they were testing with small
data sets and didn't anticipate it,
but they might load the whole database
to show a table view that has 10 rows.
Don't do that.
You don't have to do that.
Only load as much as you need to
show the next screen to the user.
And this correlates very
much with the next one,
which is to do work later.
You can load as much
as you want right now,
and then later,
when the user requests another
screen or selects some detail view,
then fetch it and do whatever processing.
And the third general
category is to do work faster,
the one that's actually hard, right?
And the name of the game here is to get
the most bang for your developer buck.
Focus your energies on the
parts that are slowest first.
And in the case that, you know,
there's just some
inherently complex problem,
you're running some fancy algorithm
and it's just going to take a while.
Well, in that case, put a placeholder,
let the user continue to use your app
in some way until that work is done.
Do that work in the background.
On to memory.
So memory is now a pretty big deal now
that we added multitasking last year.
And we need every app to do its fair
share to make the system behave well.
So analogous to the WatchDoc system,
we have something called Jetsam.
It's been around for a while.
And what it does is it watches
around -- looks around the
system for memory pressure.
So it'll terminate, you know,
background apps and apps that are
-- that are -- have been suspended
and not used for a while in order
to provide more memory for the app
that the user is currently using.
So this is Jetsam.
It'll also, if necessary,
terminate the frontmost app if
it's gone wildly out of control.
So you really want to avoid
dealing with this thing.
Hopefully,
you -- you just never hear about it.
Additional benefit of keeping memory
down is that larger suspended apps in
general are going to be jets on first.
If I need a lot of memory for Safari,
I'm not going to go around
killing a bunch of 10K apps,
if they were that small,
as opposed to one 60 megabyte app.
There's just no benefit.
So if you keep yourself small,
then you'll stick around in memory.
And so when the user
comes back to your app,
it'll be quick and snappy.
It won't have to start
from scratch again.
New to iOS 5 is a new
revamped Jetsam system.
We've taken feedback over the past
year and we've revamped the system
such that memory warnings are really
now your last chance to save yourself.
What that means is when
you get a memory warning,
there are no more apps
available to terminate.
So if nothing is done,
your app is going to be terminated.
So be sure to respond to
memory warnings in iOS 5.
All right,
so some key areas to focus on when
you're debugging memory problems.
Spikes.
So a spike is when,
in a very brief period of time,
less than one turn of the run loop,
so a very brief period of time,
you allocate a bunch
of objects immediately.
Generally this happens when you're
processing a large amount of data.
You've downloaded a big chunk from
the network and you're doing some
bunch of work on it to display.
And, you know, it's pretty easy to
get caught up in this.
It's a pretty simple fix, though,
which is good.
All you need to do is break up your work
into small independent batches so that,
you know,
you process the batch and the memory
that you used for the processing you
can use again for the next batch over
and over and over until you're done.
I'll emphasize again that
if there's a lot of this,
you do want to do this in the background.
And another thing that contributes
to this is auto-release objects.
You don't necessarily have complete
control over this all the time.
So you want to be very careful about
these things and try to reduce the object
lifetime of these auto-release objects.
Now, I know a lot of people might
not know exactly what they are.
They're new to the platform.
So I'm going to talk a little
bit about what that really means.
What is auto-release?
Now, we've heard this before.
Auto-release.
It's used to avoid worrying
about retain and release.
There's this, you know,
retain and release systems, Objective-C,
what is this?
Auto-release fixes my problems.
That's not really a great
way to think about it.
Really, the way to think about it,
and it's not too complicated,
is it's a way for frameworks, you know,
the stuff Apple provides
or a third party provides,
to manage object ownership.
And I'll show you what that means
by comparing and contrasting it
a little bit with the regular
retain and release system.
So we've got... regular
retain and release.
So, let's say we have our app,
and it asks for an object.
You know, it does alloc init,
and we get our object,
and it calls retain on it.
So, now the app owns the object.
Now, now that it owns it,
it is responsible for releasing it.
So, you know, sometime later,
the app is done with the object,
and it calls release.
Object goes away.
We're all in the clear.
Memory's back in a good place.
So how does auto-release work?
So in the auto-release case,
it asks a framework for an object.
So you'll see the telltale
sign is the object name.
So NSArrayArray, NSStringStringWith,
or NSStringWhatever.
And so the framework will make
an object and put it on this
auto-release pool to release,
because it doesn't know when
your app is done with it.
And so your app has this non-owning
relationship with the object,
unless you call retain on it.
If you call retain on it,
then you'll get another solid line,
and you're responsible
for calling release on it.
But in this case,
only the auto-release has
that owning relationship.
And so sometime later,
your app is done with the object.
Doesn't call release on it,
because it didn't call retain.
Doesn't own the object.
But the auto-release
pool will call release.
And from there, the object goes away.
Now, the problem here is that before the
auto-release pool does its thing,
in the meantime, your app could have
allocated a few more objects,
and this is a very common
source of memory spikes.
Now, the new Arc system alleviates this
problem quite a bit by doing some tricks
under the hood with object lifetime.
But in case you haven't done that,
or in the case that it hasn't
fully solved the problem,
the way around this is to use
a nested auto-release pool.
And what does that mean?
That's basically when you make
your own NS auto-release pool,
or use the new at
auto-release pool syntax,
and that will attach any new object
that you create onto that pool.
And then when you call drain,
or when you hit the end of that block,
then all those objects will be released.
So you can control the lifetime of
these objects with these nested pools.
So that's spikes and auto-release pools.
So the next big category
of memory is leaks.
We've all heard about leaks.
There's a whole
instrument named after it.
And what it is, it's pretty simple.
It's you've allocated some memory,
you used it, and then you just don't have
a pointer to it anymore.
You have no way of touching it.
So it's completely gone,
and it's just taking up memory.
And leaks is pretty smart.
It can scan memory for these things.
And it'll tell you where
these objects were allocated.
So it doesn't know when it's
supposed to be released.
It can't really read your mind.
But it'll provide you context
for where to look in your code,
for where the appropriate section
of code is to do the release.
And the common mistakes with using
it is just retaining an extra
time without a balanced release.
So in the traditional system,
for every retain,
you should have a release.
The other very common leak is to-- uh
Forget to release a property when
you're setting a new one on a setter.
And so, you know,
these are things to look out for.
Now,
Arc largely removes this problem as well.
You're not even allowed to
call retain and release.
There is some exception in
pure C frameworks for Graphics,
AV Foundation, et cetera.
But in general,
Arc will make this problem
a lot harder to hit.
So more incentive to convert.
And finally,
the last category is abandoned memory.
So abandoned memory is similar
to leaks in that you have memory
that you allocated and used,
and you're not going to use it anymore.
The only difference is you
still have a pointer to it.
So in theory,
you could still access it and use it.
This is a little bit trickier.
Leaks, you can obviously go look around
and see what's residing out there,
and nobody's touching it.
In abandoned memory,
it's really up to the
individual developer to know
what data is no longer used.
And the way we generally find it is to,
you know, start from some baseline,
do some interaction,
maybe go into the detail of a
table view and come back out,
and then do a diff to see,
is my memory state the same?
So we have allocations and keep shot,
and you can take two snapshots.
So you take a snapshot, go in and out,
take another snapshot.
And memory should be about the same,
because you're looking at the same view.
If there's stuff left over from
what you were doing in the meantime,
that's probably abandoned memory,
and you want to go and look for a
place where you can do a release on it.
Unfortunately, Arc doesn't help you here,
because it doesn't know
what stuff is available.
What you want to be doing here,
is nilling out references to stuff
you're not going to be using anymore.
All right.
So I'm going to demo a
couple of the instruments.
So last year, at a similar talk,
we demoed an app called Compositions.
And this time-- whoops.
[Transcript missing]
The next trace I'm going to show you
is a problem with a slow launch time.
So when I first added the face detection,
there was a problem where
after I launched up and
did all the face detection,
it would just take a really
long time before it kicked in.
And I wanted to see what was going on.
So I took, again, time profile.
And this is what showed up.
So once again,
I go back into the CPU strategy view,
because that's pretty much what I do.
That's just step number one.
And wow, look at that.
This looks like a big waste of time,
right?
Half our time is unused.
So we can, if we're so interested,
we can drill in here.
Another good time to show a new feature,
or a feature associated with this.
We have the sample list.
So what the sample list does
is it lets you pick some time.
So I'm going to zoom in here
by holding down the arrow.
shift.
Let's see, let's pick one over here.
Pick some time.
And if you pick a certain sample,
you'll see the highlight.
It'll take you to the
sample down in this list.
And over in the detail view on the side,
which you access over here,
you'll see the backtrace
of what your code is doing,
so that's fantastic.
What I usually do is I can go
and see what's taking a lot of
time at certain periods of time.
You can see what happened first,
what happened second.
So this is fantastic.
You can walk through a timeline.
And so in this case,
you can see here I was spending a lot of
time generating composition thumbnails,
and one quarter time.
It's the same call here and down here.
All right,
so what does a good case look like?
Here we go.
This looks more or less the same,
a bunch of purple.
Go back.
CPU Strategy.
Always remember that one.
And now we've got a good case.
This is what you want to be
shooting for on an iPad 2.
You want to see a big block of blue
when you're doing batch processing.
And you can go in again,
go to the sample list,
make sure you're doing the right thing.
If you have multiple operations going on,
make sure that the priorities are right.
You can look here.
So that's it for CPU Strategy.
And this is the one tool
that I use the most.
So just remember to use this.
It'll tell you exactly
what your app is doing.
And finally,
I'm going to hop over to the memory side.
So these we've had around for a while.
We've called allocations, VMTracker,
and leaks.
I put a custom template together
to run all three at the same time.
And this is a profile of
the memory usage of the app.
And I was seeing actually some
jetsamming as I was launching the app.
Actually, what happened was a little
bit after launching the app,
it would jetsam.
So I took a memory trace.
And this is what comes up.
And this is somewhat-- it's kind of cool.
It's kind of pretty.
But it's not clear how
to interpret this thing.
So I'm going to give you a few tips here.
What I usually do is--this
is a statistics view,
right?
I'm gonna switch this and
switch to the object list.
What I'm going to do
here is sort by size.
After I sort by size,
I can look at the biggest things here.
And I can see these
things are taking 45K.
And a lot of time and a lot
of objects in face core light.
I'm assuming you can
guess what that means.
And actually what happened here--
I can show you in the detail
view-- what happened here--
is we have this CI phase score
detector in it with context.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to show a few other
features while I'm here.
Leaks, like I said, very, very simple.
There's all these things that leaked.
What were they?
Oh, what do you know?
CG objects.
So these are not Objective-C.
You call CG bitmap context create,
and you get a CG image,
you have to call CG image release.
And Arc doesn't do that for you.
It really only covers
Objective-C retain and release.
So this is how you can still get leaks.
And it's very easy to find.
You go over here,
you can see in my colorized
image with color call,
I didn't release.
So I go in there and I add the release.
And finally, VM Tracker.
So VM Tracker is great for knowing
overall how much memory is my app using
and the numbers you want to focus on.
Dirty.
Dirty resident.
What that is,
is memory that your app is using that
the system can't reclaim if it needs it.
So this is the number you
really want to target.
And...
You can break down and look
at the different regions here.
And there's a lot of stuff to learn here.
And actually,
there's a whole talk-- well,
part of a talk that covers this
tomorrow at the exact same time.
So if you want to know more about this,
come back tomorrow for this one.
But what you want to
focus on is resident,
and in particular, dirty resident.
Now you can see here
there's some other things,
CG image, which I was leaking.
This makes a lot of sense.
In this view, you won't get backtraces
like you do in the other two.
But it'll give you a good idea of
overall how much your app is using.
And rule of thumb, if you're using 100
megabytes of memory resident,
that's way too much.
So that's going to be a problem,
even on an iPad 2 or an iPhone 4.
All right.
So that's it for the demo.
All right, so to review.
For speed and responsiveness,
we have the system watchdog that
will terminate your app if it's
not behaving well at key points.
The overall strategies for speed
and responsiveness are to do less,
do later, and do faster.
The hard one.
Do slow operations in the
background with placeholders,
and spend your time where it matters,
on the things that are the slowest.
It sounds obvious,
but a lot of times you might think, oh,
do something fancy to
speed up this thing.
Don't do that.
Just work on the stuff that's slow.
And finally, at launch,
the most important time,
the first time somebody uses your app,
only load what you need at launch.
And on the memory side,
the three big categories: spikes, leaks,
abandonments.
You might not remember the
details about all of them.
Slides will be available.
Jetsam will terminate your app,
just like the watchdog will.
New in iOS 5,
memory warnings are your last chance.
I just demoed some of the
instruments that are available.
If you want some more help,
there's going to be labs tomorrow,
and there's plenty of
developer documentation.
The big one for spikes is to add
the nested auto-release pool.
And finally, it's really not that hard,
convert to using Arc.
It's very simple,
and it'll save you a lot of trouble.
And with that,
I'm going to hand it off to Chad to
talk about networking and power.
Thanks, Tim.
My name's Chad Woolf.
I'm a Performance Tools Engineer for
Apple.
And I'm going to talk to you guys now
about networking and power optimizations.
Now, a lot of times when we think
about performance optimization,
we think about speed.
How do we make our code faster, right?
And speed is a really important part of
our user experience for applications,
right?
But there's another important
part of the user experience,
and that's battery life.
It's not often that the two
are optimized at the same time.
And so we really want to talk about
optimizing now for battery life.
So really performance optimization
is about optimizing for efficiency.
And faster code is usually better,
but it's also better on battery life.
So when we look at network
and power optimizations,
you're going to notice here that all
of the networking optimizations that
I'm going to recommend today also have
a positive impact on battery life,
meaning that they reduce power.
So here's what we're going to talk
about in the second half of our session.
First, we're going to talk about reducing
network traffic and bursting.
Those are two networking topics.
We're also going to talk
about core location accuracy,
sleep/wake, and dynamic frame rates.
And those will all help you save energy.
So let's talk about that first one,
reducing network traffic.
Now aside from reducing the
amount of drain on your battery
for sending the network traffic,
reducing network traffic also
has a couple of key benefits.
First, it reduces network congestion,
and that makes everybody's
networking applications,
including your own,
run much smoother and much faster.
But there's also a dollars
and cents argument here,
because a lot of our customers
are actually paying by the
byte for their data plans,
right?
So if you're actually able to reduce
the amount of network traffic that
your application is producing,
then you can actually save them a few
dollars every month on their bill,
right?
All right, but how do we measure traffic,
We have our happy application
over here on the left.
And he's made a bunch of network
connections out there to the servers.
But the key here is
always to measure first,
right?
So how do we measure network traffic?
How do we go on about looking at which
connections our application's making,
where they're going,
how much data's flowing to and from the
server that they're being connected to,
and what's the health and
status of these connections?
Are they having any
retransmission problems?
Or what's the average round trip times?
That type of thing, right?
We also might want to know,
is our application doing more
networking in the beginning?
Or is it maybe in the middle?
Or is it maybe towards the end
here when we start to talk about
switching out or multitasking,
right?
Well, in iOS 5, we have a new instrument,
which we hope can shed
some light on that for us.
It's called the
Network Connections Instrument,
and it basically does
everything I just said.
It measures data volume,
it works for TCP IP,
and it also works for UDP IP ports
if you have those open,
and it collects those
important performance metrics
that I wanted to talk about.
Now,
let me show you that in a quick demo.
Of course, I'm not going to commit the
cardinal sin here of trying to do
a network demonstration at WWDC.
Okay?
But I do have a trace that
I recorded a little bit earlier
in the week at the office.
And it was on an application
out there that's demo code,
or it's example code
on developer.apple.com,
which you can get.
It's called Lazy Table.
And what it does is it shows you
how to use placeholder images and
lazily load data over a network.
It's actually a very good application,
and it's fairly well optimized.
So it's a good target here for the
network connections instrument to see
if we can find out any more about it.
Now, if we go over here to our
network connections track,
you'll see along the time axis,
these are periods of network activity.
So you can see we have a little
bit more activity in the beginning.
Let me zoom in here for you.
And then we have some network activity
trailing out a little bit later.
So we can see their application is doing
different things at different times.
Now, here in the details view,
we also have some information.
And this is the total,
all the connections and how much
data they've sent and received
and to which IP address and port.
So that's a lot of really
important information.
Now, if you want to look
at just one bump here,
you can hold down the option
key and select a time filter.
And that will show you only the
network connections that were
active and only the data totals
that were sent during that interval.
So here we can see that we sent 11k.
Or sorry,
we received 11k over eight packets.
We sent 247 bytes with one packet.
And some of those interesting
statistics like duplicate data,
out of order retransmissions,
and the round trip times
are also calculated here.
So you can maybe use this information to
help troubleshoot your latency issues.
So now that we have a fair
understanding of our data,
sorry, of our application with this data,
let's talk about some of the
optimizations that we can make.
So let's talk about some of the
optimizations that we can make
for network traffic reduction.
All right, so the first one,
the big one here, is caching content.
If you're using our URL loading
system in Foundation,
you're going to get caching for free,
and it's on by default.
So if you're using the URL loading
system to pull URLs from an HTTP server,
it gets even better,
because the HTTP server can tell the
cache which responses can I cache
and how long can I cache them for.
And that's a lot of benefit,
and that's a lot of code
that you don't have to write.
And that can really seriously
reduce your network traffic.
If you use it effectively.
So that's the URL loading system.
Now, the NSURLCache object,
which we had in iOS 4,
used to cache things only in memory.
So all of the responses
were cached in memory.
When your application was terminated
and then you started it again,
you were starting from a clean slate.
But in iOS 5, we now have persistence,
which means that all that cached data --
I'll be sure to pass that on.
All of that cache data will be loaded
next time you load your application.
And that's also on by default now.
So you'll see a lot of network
applications just respond a little bit
better not starting with a clean slate.
All right,
the next topic here for reducing
network traffic is compression.
If you're starting with
your own network protocols,
try to pick the most compact
data formats you can.
And I would tend to prefer data
formats that are inherently compressed,
such as MP3 or JPEG,
something that's inherently
compressed like that.
Now, if you're transferring data
that's not inherently compressed,
like plain text or XML,
I would suggest maybe
zipping it up on the server,
sending it over to your application,
expanding it,
sending the reply also in a zip format.
Try to use compression the best you
can to reduce your network traffic.
Actually, there's one more thing.
Not that kind of one more thing.
And that's reducing--so if you're
downloading images over the web,
try to pick the URL that has the
closest image size of pictures
to the one that you need,
right?
If you download the big
one and then scale it,
you're essentially wasting a lot of time,
energy, and money transferring this
data and then just scaling it.
Now, the next one for reducing network
traffic is resumable transfers.
On a mobile device,
we call it network connection volatility.
It's a fact of life.
When you move from
Wi-Fi hotspot to Wi-Fi hotspot,
you'll be breaking connection
and reforming another one.
You're going to get a
different IP address.
Any sort of long-term running
transfers that you're executing,
well, they'll be severed.
The connections will be severed.
Right?
Also happens with cellular networks.
When the user goes into an
elevator and the doors close
or they enter a parking garage,
something like that,
it'll break the connection.
Now, if you're building your
own transfer protocols,
make sure you support
resumable transfers.
Do not try the big download
all the way from the beginning.
Not a great idea.
If you're using HTTP,
there's a range header.
There's a field in the header
of the request that you can
put a range specification.
You can range extract the bytes
you need so you can continue a
download if you're using HTTP.
HTTP.
Most servers will honor that.
All right,
now the last one here for reducing
network traffic is download profiling.
Now, this is a little bit more abstract,
but the idea here is that you want
to take your application and look
at the amount of data that's coming
over through your network connections
and also track how much of that
content that you've downloaded is
actually being viewed by your users.
You might create logging and
send those statistics back,
or you might be able to even look
at your server logs and see how many
times you've had canceled transfers.
So if you have some preview content
and you realize that 90% of your users
are only getting through the first
third of the content before they cancel
it and move on or make a purchase,
something like that,
then you can actually make some
optimizations and only send that first
third instead of sending a whole bunch
of bytes that aren't going to be used.
So that's just something to
take home and think about.
So reducing traffic, in summary,
measure first.
We have a network connections
instrument for that now.
Cache content when available,
when possible,
and the NSURO loading system.
It has some great advantages there,
and now we support persistence in iOS 5.
Compress when possible,
resumable transfers, fact of life,
you definitely need to support
them in your own protocols,
and try to download only what's
statistically likely to be used.
All right, next optimization, Bursting.
Bursting is also network optimization.
And the idea here is that
we take all the data that we
want to send in one big block,
we send it,
and we wait for a period of time,
and then we send the
next big transaction.
So period of activity, period of silence,
period of activity.
That's Bursting.
Now why do we do that?
We do that primarily for energy reasons.
And let me explain why.
Sending and receiving data on
a cellular network requires a
significant amount of energy.
You can probably imagine.
But beyond that,
when you use a cellular radio,
the radio has to stay in a high power
state after that last byte of data that
you transmitted for up to 10 seconds.
And even if you only
send one byte after that,
you're going to be resetting that timer
and it'll have to stay in a high power
state for another potentially 10 seconds.
So imagine this graphically.
Here we have this area in yellow as
the energy it takes to send your data.
Now after you finish sending your data,
the radio is still in that high power
state before it comes back down.
Now it's still consuming energy.
Now you can think of this red as waste
because we're actually sending data,
but we're consuming energy.
Now if you send small bytes of data,
you can see exactly the effect.
We have lots of waste and actually
very little data being sent.
So how do we go about measuring bursting?
Well, last year we introduced the
Energy Diagnostics template,
and it was a major step in
the right direction here.
Because we could measure the
energy coming from our battery,
we could see different
statistics about our CPU,
what they were doing.
We could also see power states
of GPS and different radios.
But this year,
we wanted to add the network
activity instrument to that template.
So now, in addition to these
various radio states,
you can actually--or
various power states,
you can actually see how many
bytes were being sent over your
Wi-Fi and cellular interfaces,
along with your power data,
and you can make those
correlations yourself.
[Transcript missing]
Possible slide malfunction here.
Or I hit the wrong button,
which is totally possible.
Because I'm on stage in
front of 1,500 people.
Okay, the final one here is the energy
usage instrument at the top.
Okay,
the energy usage instrument at the top
used to sample in fairly large buckets.
Now in iOS 5,
we're sampling every second.
So you have a much higher fidelity
view of what is going on and how your
code is impacting that energy usage.
Right button.
OK.
So now let's talk about a demo for--
let me just show you a trace I recorded
to demonstrate the effect that
bursting can have on an application.
So here's a trace I took with the energy
diagnostics template with iOS 5 and the
network activity instrument in place.
And here we see our first scenario,
which is we're transferring
a large file over time.
And if I look at the
network activity instrument,
we can see here,
if I expand the column here,
That we're sending about
500K every 30 seconds.
So that's about a megabyte per minute.
Now you can see the corresponding
effect this is having on the radio.
You see the energy usage.
We have it spike, and then it sits down,
and then it spikes again during
the next network transmission.
Now also in this document,
I have a second run,
which shows a completely
different result.
In here, in the network track,
we'll see that we are sending
100K every 10 seconds.
Now, that's a different data rate.
That's actually 600K per minute, right?
So you'd expect this to
be more energy efficient.
We're sending less data, right?
But look at this track up top.
If you look at this track,
you can see how those
little bursts of data,
without very much time in between,
is keeping that radio
on almost all the time.
And if you look at the area here,
it almost looks like a 2X improvement.
And we can actually confirm that.
In the 1MB per minute transfer,
where we're transferring
500K every 30 seconds,
we can do that for about 15 hours.
Now, the other trace,
where we're downloading less data,
but we're doing it every 10 seconds,
7 hours of battery life.
So it's huge.
It's a 2X improvement.
Just by taking data and
going through bursting.
All right, so let's go back to slides,
and we'll talk about maybe an example
on how you might go about this.
[Transcript missing]
If you see the GPS on,
that means that core location
is at the end of its rope.
All of the energy efficient optimizations
it could make to find your location,
they just won't work in this scenario.
So that can happen in
two different cases.
One, you're using best accuracy,
and the GPS is the only way
to get the best accuracy.
Or two, you're using maybe some very
low granularity accuracy,
but there's no other
points of references.
There's no other points of reference.
There's no cell towers or
Wi-Fi hotspots in the area.
and it has to turn the GPS on.
So how do you go about
tuning core location code?
So you have the core
location manager object,
and it has an attribute
called desired accuracy.
You can set it to one of these constants.
By default, it's set to best,
which works great for
our hiking application,
but it may not be appropriate
for applications such as one that
might get the weather in the area,
the forecast, right?
You could probably get away with three
kilometer accuracy for that type of case.
Now, the second one is optimization or
tuning that you can do for the core
location manager is start updating
location and stop updating location.
You want to call stop updating
location as soon as you possibly can,
right?
Now, in our hiking application,
we need to keep core location
going and get all those updates.
But in our weather application,
we can turn it off immediately as soon
as we get our first location information.
So try to turn it off whenever you can.
If a user moves away from that panel
that is using the location information,
you can turn it off immediately.
Turn it off.
That'll cause everything
else to idle back down.
And you'll see that in the
energy diagnostics template.
You see the effect in the
All right.
Our fourth optimization for power
here is going to be sleep wake.
Okay,
optimizing for running battery life,
like where we're showing how we can get
with bursting 15 hours versus 7 hours,
that's great.
But standby time is also a very
important part of the user experience
when it comes to battery life.
We want to try to make that
standby time as long as possible.
The expectation here is when
I take my phone and I'm not using
it and I put it in my pocket,
that I should be able to leave
it there for a couple days
before I need to recharge it,
right?
So standby battery life is an
important part of that user experience.
Now there's things that our applications
can do to keep the device awake,
such as background activity.
But there's also things that we can
do that will wake the device up.
And those things include push
notification and voice over IP packets.
So how do we measure if our
application is messing with sleep/wake?
Well, in the energy diagnostics template,
there is a sleep/wake track.
The dark areas show you when
you're sleeping and the light
areas when you're awake.
You want to try to make that as dark
as you can for as long as you can.
Now, here's an example of how your
application could affect sleep/wake.
What we did here is we took a device
and we put it to sleep--or we put it
to sleep and then we woke it up every
30 seconds with a network packet,
okay?
Now, that does two things.
First off, it turns the radios on,
but it also wakes the device up.
And you can see here in the
sleep/wake track that it's
actually staying awake for a while.
Now, this can happen--this happens
because it takes a bit before
the device will go back to sleep
just to make sure it doesn't have
anything else it needs to do.
Now,
our normal standby time is 300 hours.
If we wake the device like this
with that type of a radioactivity,
we have a standby life of 30 hours.
Okay,
that's a 10x reduction just because we're
pinging the device every 30 seconds.
Obviously,
we don't want to continue doing that.
OK, so what kind of optimizations
can we make here?
Well, the first one I want to make
note is that push notifications.
Push notifications and, to some extent,
voice over IP packets,
they can wake the device.
So you have to be careful
when you send them.
Now, push notifications are great.
We want you to use them.
They're a lot better than
some of the alternatives.
But you have to be careful that
when you do push a notification,
you understand that when
you do push a notification,
you are waking the customer's device.
So if you're pushing notifications
and the customer hasn't
responded back to your server,
probably is a good indication that
their device is either in their
pocket and they can't get to it,
or they're asleep, or some other thing.
So it's probably a good time to
stop pushing those notifications.
If you get into that pattern where you're
pushing a notification every 30 seconds,
you're going to bring their battery down
to potentially 30 hours of standby time.
You don't want to do that.
So let the device sleep
as long as possible.
That's the key here.
So if you absolutely
have to ping the device,
do it every 10, 30 minutes,
something as as long as
you possibly can make it.
All right, finally here,
dynamic frame rates.
Now,
we know that the smoothest animations
and the best looking games come
in at 60 frames per second,
right?
But is that true for
everything in all scenarios,
right?
As it turns out,
for scenes that maybe are
a little bit more still or
there's not a lot of motion,
you can get away with
maybe lower frame rates.
Now, we're not saying across the board,
set your frame rate down and reduce
the quality of your application,
but for certain scenes,
you might be able to get away with
lower frame rates and not have too
many people notice a difference,
and you'll get much better battery life.
So how do we measure that?
Again, energy diagnostics template.
But we also have the
core animation template,
and that will allow you to measure
the number of frames per second that
you're actually pushing to the device.
Now, if you're looking at the
energy diagnostics template,
you want to look for foreground
activity and graphics activity.
Those are going to be the big ones
that you want to try to reduce,
and that's what usually
frame rate is driving.
But ultimately,
the final say here is what the energy
usage instrument is telling you.
It's trying to tell you
that you're getting better
or worse energy efficiency,
so watch that track above all else.
So here we took a popular
gaming engine for iOS,
and we ran it at a full
60 frames a second,
and we got a 15 out of 20 energy level.
Now, we took that same engine and set
it down to 15 frames a second,
and we got about a 10
out of 15 energy level.
Now, you'll see the reduction
here also in the CPU track.
Everything came down universally.
Now, we're not saying that everybody's
going to get a huge benefit by
going to 15 frames a second.
We're just saying that if you adjust
your frame rate and take an energy trace,
you can see what that difference
is going to be and see if it's
worthwhile to your application.
So how can we do this
dynamic frame rate thing?
Well, there's no big switch that you can
throw that turns on dynamic frame rates.
It's kind of an application
engine type thing.
The idea here is to draw only what's new.
Don't draw redundant
frames if you can avoid it.
Also experiment with
different frame rates.
Maybe certain parts of your
application can get away with slower
frame rates and nobody will notice.
And as Tim was saying,
try double blind test.
Try taking your game at one frame
rate and at another frame rate,
handing it to different people,
see if they notice a difference.
If they don't notice a difference,
then you're picking up free battery life.
But the other goal here is, of course,
to reduce your CPU and GPU activity.
So even if your game is running super
smooth and the animations are perfect,
if you further optimize,
maybe make your geometry
management a little better,
a little bit more efficient,
even if it doesn't affect the frame rate,
it will keep the CPU.
But make your CPU more idle,
and that will save you a
significant amount of energy.
So the more efficient
we can make our apps,
the more energy we're going to be saving
and the longer our battery life will be.
Same thing goes for GPU shaders.
If you can make them more efficient,
you'll also see a positive
impact on battery life,
which you'll see with the
energy usage instrument.
Okay,
so that's it for energy and networking.
So let's talk about the session review.
Measure, always measure first.
Measurement will make
things a lot easier.
Instruments has a lot
of tools in the toolbox,
and it can do a really good job of
hooking into your application in pretty
unique ways to find out what it's doing.
So start there.
Of course, for everything else,
there's logging.
Try logging if you can't use instruments.
Now, if you have some performance problem
that slips out into the wild,
you're going to see that on
your iTunes Connect report.
Jetsam notifications,
if your app has been
terminated because of Jetsam,
or if your app has been terminated
because of the Watchdog,
you'll see those logs accumulate
in your iTunes Connect report.
So take a look at those and make
sure that those are absolutely
addressed at highest priority.
Now,
the goal here for the whole session is
really to talk about promoting lean apps.
But it's not just fast apps.
It's also apps that are more
efficient in terms of energy and more
efficient in terms of networking.
And also,
Well, actually, those are the big ones.
So if you make your apps leaner,
everything is much more pleasing.
It's faster.
Multitasking is faster if
you're more memory efficient.
And you can get much more
life out of your battery.
So the key here is performance.
One aspect is speed,
but it's really about efficiency.
So for more information,
you can contact Michael Jurowicz,
who's our developer tools evangelist.
For documentation,
there's the Instruments User's Guide.
That will actually show you how to enable
the energy diagnostics instruments and be
able to take your own power recordings.
There's always the Apple Developer Forums
for questions and answers.
For related sessions,
I would suggest taking a look at the
ARC and What's New in Instruments.
Unfortunately, they've already passed,
but they will be on video.
And same time tomorrow in this room,
so 4:30 Thursday, Presidio,
there is the iOS Performance In-Depth,
which is the sister session to this talk,
and it'll be talking even
more about performance.
Have a good rest of your day.